Create Rule “test-high-risk-features/rule” (#10522)
SSWConsulting/SSW.Rules.Content: rules/test-high-risk-features/rule.md

---
type: rule
tips: ""
title: Do you test high-risk features with real users before launch?
seoDescription: Don’t release critical features without testing them first.
  Usability testing reduces risk, uncovers UX issues, and gives you confidence
  before launch.
uri: test-high-risk-features
authors:
  - title: Betty Bondoc
    url: https://www.ssw.com.au/people/betty-bondoc/
related:
  - mix-user-research-methods
guid: e3427c47-5871-476d-8aaf-e0968edd3cb5
---
Shipping a high-risk feature without testing it with users is a gamble. If your update affects sign-up flows, checkout processes, or dashboards, you can’t afford to guess. Usability issues that slip through can cost you revenue, reputation, and rework time.

Even experienced designers and developers miss things. The only way to validate an interface is to observe real users attempting real tasks.

<!--endintro-->

## Why test usability?

> According to Nielsen Norman Group, usability testing helps you:

Author: ```suggestion
According to [NN/g](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/usability-testing-101/), usability testing helps you:
```
